we have known for a long time
that air pollution kills people we also
know
that a climate emergency is happening
these are hardly motivating facts to
start a conversation
but i'm actually here to share good news
for the first time
in our lifetimes a big detox
of transportation is possible despite
the many problems we have
or perhaps because of them the lockdowns
of 2020 have been tough
but they also gave us a glimpse of life
without the usual
noise congestion and pollution
confronting us with questions about
the way we live the tailpipe
is a symbol of our worst habits
habits that we have normalized for too
long
the burning of 100 million barrels of
oil
every 24 hours and the extraction
behind that oil the fumes choking
our cities the greenhouse gas is going
up in the atmosphere
and overheating our planet none of that
is normal nor is air pollution
which can shorten life expectancy by
up to 10 years depending on where you
live
this is also a matter of environmental
justice
because air pollution hurts everyone
but it hurts the poor and minorities
disproportionately the good news is that
things are changing
take cities first
people around the world are demanding
clean air
and cities are responding by banning
petrol and diesel cars mostly by 2030
and 2040 over 30 cities and regions are
already doing this
second the city space is going through
an overhaul
too much space was given to cars and
cities are reversing this
by blocking traffic from certain streets
by giving streets back to pedestrians
by making the streets greener and safer
especially
for children and third cities are also
prioritizing
active mobility such as biking and
walking
and the pandemic accelerated many of
these decisions
from barcelona to bogota
cities are opening spaces for bike lanes
for commuters sales of bikes
and e-bikes are booming in many places
paris is pioneering the 15-minute city
to put essentials within a walk
or a bike ride all within 15 minutes
i live in amsterdam where a profound
transformation is
underway amsterdam already promotes
biking public transit walking
so you might be surprised to hear that
even in amsterdam there is a problem
with air pollution because of road
transportation
that is why the city of amsterdam has a
plan
to go emissions free by 2030
and the plan builds on the idea of an
expanding
zero emission zone going from the center
outwards in three phases by 2022
all buses and coaches circulating in the
city center must be emissions free
by 2025 the zone expands
and all public and commercial traffic
must be emissions
free public buses coaches taxis
vans small medium and large tracks
that also includes muppets ferries
and boats by 2030
the zone expands further and by then
all transportation must be
emissions-free including
personal cars and motorcycles
no more tailpipes and that is just
nine years away living here
and witnessing first hand how amsterdam
becomes a front-runner of electric
mobility
is a powerful reminder that the
big societal imperative of halving
carbon emissions by 2030 goes beyond
nudging people away from personal cars
the systemic change we need requires
that
all modes of transportation go
emissions-free
powered by renewables and we have to
achieve that
while making sure that our needs are met
as
citizens and as business and to do this
we need to
electrify pretty much everything
cities cannot do this alone so we need
national governments
to play a fundamental role too the
european union
for example has co2 emission
standards for vehicle manufacturers and
over
a dozen of european countries have set
up
plans to phase out petrol and diesel
cars
france by 2040 the united kingdom
by 2035. china
and california have mandates to
accelerate
the manufacturing of zero emission
models california
just passed a rule that requires that
50 of the sales of trucks
in the states are zero emissions by 2035
and all of them must be zero emissions
by 2045. this is a game changer
for the tracking industry vehicle
manufacturing
is shifting towards electrification look
at some of the milestones which were
unthinkable a few years back
volkswagen has converted a traditional
plant
into one that will produce only electric
vehicles
timeler is halting all the development
of internal combustion engines and tesla
is more valuable today than exxon mobil
this year public charging plugs
hit the 1 million mark around the world
fleet owners are shifting towards zero
emission
models amazon alone has ordered
100 000 electric delivery vans
and nearly 90 global companies have
joined
ev100 an international initiative
to electrify fleets by 2030
starting now these are still small steps
compared to the scale of our oil
addiction
but they signal
a new direction of trouble what's really
exciting
is that the technologies we need for
this transformation
are here today commercially available
getting cheaper and getting better look
at batteries
their cost went down 90 percent
in 10 years and there are new
opportunities
to repurpose these batteries for energy
storage
or to recycle them once they were down
the race to zero needs capital
so we need more urgency and
directionality in the financial industry
because it is heavily invested
in fossil fuels to reach scale and speed
we will need clever combinations of
finance and policy
look at what's going on with electric
buses
china has a fleet of 420
000 electric buses
compared to 600
in the entire united states
to put that into perspective santiago de
chile alone
has 455 electric buses and growing
thanks to an ingenious financial
arrangement
africa now has its first manufacturing
plant of electric buses
and p4g a global initiative is working
with emerging economies that want to
scale up the electrification
of buses colombia is first in line
designing a fund of 2.2
billion dollars to electrify 6 000
buses over time there is and there will
be resistance to change
there is even an inability to imagine
that change is possible
in reality change happens exponentially
look at what happened to solar energy
exponential change can bring turmoil
if the decline of old industries is not
managed
it can bring economic dislocation
and job disruption
so wouldn't it be wiser to prepare
and design just transitions now
rather than later
here's the bottom line the end
of the internal combustion engine is
within sight
the question is no longer whether this
will happen
but when 10 years
20 years it depends on us and the
choices that we make this decade
so now is the time to go bigger
and faster towards a future without a
tailpipe
a future where we can meet our
transportation needs
and have people-friendly streets
a future with a thriving economy and
clean air
a future we choose for the climate
and for our health thank you